---
layout: post
title: The Nose
author: Martynas
tags: yosemite bigwall aid
---

As our pilgrimage to Yosemite was getting closer to an end, we got less humble
and more psyched about trying The Nose on El Cap.  The decision was made while
chilling in El Cap meadow on a Friday morning and we rushed to buy food, organize gear,
poop tube, strategy and etc. Loading the haulbag made us realise that a multi-day sufferfest is
waiting for us. Also, the suffering aspect became even more unavoidable after listening
to funny big wall stories from our friends [Phillip](http://philippangelo.blogspot.co.uk/)
and Thomas who climbed The Nose a few days before us.

{% include img p="29.jpg" u="29.jpg" t="We after El Cap" %}
<!--break-->

The first four pitches (out of ~30) on The Nose to Sickle Ledge are considered to
be the most tricky. Most parties fix them in advance, so did we.  In the end, climbing
those pitches wasn't that bad especially with a set of offset cams which helps
protect pin scared cracks. During the climb, Laura learned how to properly use cam
hooks. As it was Saturday, we decided to do the hauling on Sunday and to start the
real climbing on Monday to avoid weekend crowds.

Next day, we hauled the damn heavy haulbag to Sickle Ledge. After seeing quite a
few fixed ropes at the base of El Cap, it was clear - we need to start next morning
very very early to be the first on the route.

3am Monday. The alarm clock starts to ring at Camp 4. Quick espresso shot with
muesli surrounded by raccoons and we are on the way to El Cap.  Jugging the fixed
lines in the dark we saw headlamps slowly approaching the base - we seem to be the
first on the route! The first day climbing was exciting.  Not only because we met
Alex Honnold, but also because of climbing itself. The day finished on El Cap Tower
which is at the pitch 13th. We were lucky to share the ledge with nobody as many
parties bellow us bailed. It is impossible to describe the excitement when you sleep
on a ledge under the dark blue sky full of stars and full moon.

Next day started with the infamous Texas Flake - a chimney without any pro. When
Laura was leading it, some guy from a route far on the right was shouting
"Teeeeeexaaaas Flaaaaaake!":) The day was full of classics - King Swing, Great
Roof, Pancake Flake. The pitch after the latter was climbed with a headlamp, so
we had to stop for a not so comfortable night on a not so big and a bit sloppy
ledge called Camp V. The sleep was not good either as all the time we were sliding
down the ledge.

The final day brought a nice and sometimes delicate aid climbing. The exposure and
wind were increasing as we were getting closer to the top. The final bolt
ladder was a good challenge for hand cramps. At the top in the dark we were
desperately looking for a tree which we saw in movies and which marks the end of the
route. Finally we reached a flat land and collapsed under stars.

Overall, the climbing was very amazing! The element of suffering wasn't that bad.
This was definitely one of the most exciting climbs for both of us which made us
even more psyched for bigger and wilder adventures!

Just for a record, the list of stuff we brought on The Nose includes:

* 18 liters of water (3 liters were unused)
* 3 two-person dried meals for dinner
* 21 cliff bars (ate all of them!)
* A few energy gels
* 4 muffins for breakfast
* 4 Starbucks doubleshot espresso cans (quite OK for coffee addicts)
* 2 packages of cookies
* 2 packages of beef jerky
* Electrolytes powder

* Lightweight stove
* Small pot
* Bivy sacks (just in case; didn't use)
* Sleeping pads
* Sleeping bags
* Headlamps with extra batteries
* First aid kit
* Little knife
* Poo bag
* Metolius El Cap haul bag (157L)
* Down jackets
* Rain jackets and pants (didn't use)
* Rock shoes (first day we aided in those, but then switched)
* Approach shoes (I managed to completely destroy my brand new Five Ten Tennie Guides)
* Fingerless gloves

* 60m 10.1mm dynamic rope
* 60m 9.0mm static rope (haul line)
* 15m 7mm static rope (lower-out line)
* 3 Yates Speed Wall Ladder, 1 Black Diamond Etrier
* Petzl Mini Traxon
* 2 Black Diamond fifi hooks
* 4 Black Diamond 18mm Nylon daisy chains
* 4 Petzl Ascension
* 2 Petzl Grigri
* 15 quick draws (10 extended)
* 1 set of Black Diamond X4 Offset camalots
* 2 sets of Black Diamond C3/C4/X4 camalots from 0.1 to 4
* 2 sets of Black Diamond stoppers
* 1 set of Black Diamond micro stoppers
* Nut tool
* 2 Moses Cam Hooks (narrow)
* 2 cordelettes
* 2 prusik loops
* 2 ATCs
* 10 locking carabiners
* 20 non-locking carabiners
* Bunch of slings
* Harness

{% include img p="1-small.jpg" u="1.jpg" t="Laura on 2nd pitch" %}
{% include img p="2-small.jpg" u="2.jpg" t="Laura on probably 7th pitch" %}
{% include img p="3-small.jpg" u="3.jpg" t="Laura meets Alex Honnold" %}
{% include img p="4-small.jpg" u="4.jpg" t="Getting closer to El Cap Tower" %}
{% include img p="5-small.jpg" u="5.jpg" t="Martynas aiding" %}
{% include img p="6-small.jpg" u="6.jpg" t="Enjoying view from El Cap Tower" %}
{% include img p="7-small.jpg" u="7.jpg" t="First night" %}
{% include img p="8-small.jpg" u="8.jpg" t="Next day's morning on El Cap Tower" %}
{% include img p="9-small.jpg" u="9.jpg" t="Laura just finished Texas Flake" %}
{% include img p="10-small.jpg" u="10.jpg" t="Approaching The Boot Flake" %}
{% include img p="11-small.jpg" u="11.jpg" t="King Swing" %}
{% include img p="12-small.jpg" u="12.jpg" t="Laura" %}
{% include img p="13-small.jpg" u="13.jpg" t="Martynas starts The Great Roof" %}
{% include img p="14-small.jpg" u="14.jpg" t="The very end of The Great Roof" %}
{% include img p="15-small.jpg" u="15.jpg" t="Sunset on Pancake Flake" %}
{% include img p="18-small.jpg" u="18.jpg" t="Camp V was not so hospitable" %}
{% include img p="16-small.jpg" u="16.jpg" t="Changing Corners" %}
{% include img p="17-small.jpg" u="17.jpg" t="Haulbag and poopbag" %}
{% include img p="19-small.jpg" u="19.jpg" t="Laura" %}
{% include img p="20-small.jpg" u="20.jpg" t="Exposure on The Nose" %}
{% include img p="21-small.jpg" u="21.jpg" t="To illustrate the steepness :)" %}
{% include img p="22-small.jpg" u="22.jpg" t="Hauling" %}
{% include img p="23-small.jpg" u="23.jpg" t="Excited on the top" %}
{% include img p="24-small.jpg" u="24.jpg" t="Next morning after the climb" %}
{% include img p="25-small.jpg" u="25.jpg" t="Our mess" %}
{% include img p="26-small.jpg" u="26.jpg" t="The end" %}

{% include img p="30-small.jpg" u="30.jpg" t="Tom Evans photo" %}
{% include img p="31-small.jpg" u="31.jpg" t="Tom Evans photo" %}
{% include img p="32-small.jpg" u="32.jpg" t="Tom Evans photo" %}
{% include img p="33-small.jpg" u="33.jpg" t="Tom Evans photo" %}
{% include img p="34-small.jpg" u="34.jpg" t="Tom Evans photo" %}

<div class="image-wrapper">
<video width="600" controls>
      <source src="http://vagabonds.lambda.lt/images/2016-12-01-the-nose/video1.webm" type="video/webm">
      Your browser doesn't support HTML5 video tag.
</video>
<p class="image-caption">Morning</p>
</div>
<div class="image-wrapper">
<video width="600" controls>
      <source src="http://vagabonds.lambda.lt/images/2016-12-01-the-nose/video2.webm" type="video/webm">
      Your browser doesn't support HTML5 video tag.
</video>
<p class="image-caption">The upper section</p>
</div>

