---
layout: post
title: Sinusitis in Chulilla
author: Martynas
tags: sport spain
---

The Christmas breaks are dedicated to climbing, and this one was no exception.
Without much debate, we decided to explore a new, for us, sport climbing place in
Chulilla, a small village in the region of Valencia, Spain.
This time it included the whole ex-Zurich crew!

{% include img p="21.jpg" u="21.jpg" t="Chulilla" %}
<!--break-->

On the way to Chulilla I attended the superb
[33c3](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2016/wiki/Main_Page) conference in
Hamburg.
Unfortunately in the conference, I managed to catch a nasty virus which resulted
in a trip accompanied by fever and sinusitis.

Despite the sickness, a bit of climbing was done, some wine was drank and many
pizzas were eaten, which are a must for good holidays.

{% include img p="1-small.jpg" u="1.jpg" t="Hitchhiking to Chulilla" %}
{% include img p="2-small.jpg" u="2.jpg" t="Strong Simučiai" %}
{% include img p="3-small.jpg" u="3.jpg" t="And strong Povilas" %}
{% include img p="4-small.jpg" u="4.jpg" t="Village of Chulilla" %}
{% include img p="5-small.jpg" u="5.jpg" t="Preparing for New Years Eve" %}
{% include img p="6-small.jpg" u="6.jpg" t="Chulilla" %}
{% include img p="7-small.jpg" u="7.jpg" t="Many climbing sectors" %}
{% include img p="8-small.jpg" u="8.jpg" t="Povilas and a dog" %}
{% include img p="9-small.jpg" u="9.jpg" t="Tufas. A lot of tufas. Unfortunately wet." %}
{% include img p="10-small.jpg" u="10.jpg" t="My wife" %}
{% include img p="11-small.jpg" u="11.jpg" t="Povilas cruising..." %}
{% include img p="12-small.jpg" u="12.jpg" t="and Laura (Aistė's photo)" %}
{% include img p="13-small.jpg" u="13.jpg" t="Best buddies (Aistė's photo)" %}
{% include img p="14-small.jpg" u="14.jpg" t="Myself" %}
{% include img p="15-small.jpg" u="15.jpg" t="Someone was crushing not only rocks" %}
{% include img p="16-small.jpg" u="16.jpg" t="Lovely rocks" %}
{% include img p="17-small.jpg" u="17.jpg" t="Povilas" %}
{% include img p="18-small.jpg" u="18.jpg" t="Laura" %}
{% include img p="19-small.jpg" u="19.jpg" t="Me" %}
{% include img p="20-small.jpg" u="20.jpg" t="Aistė making it look easy" %}
{% include img p="22-small.jpg" u="22.jpg" t="Chulilla" %}
{% include img p="23-small.jpg" u="23.jpg" t="At night" %}
{% include img p="24-small.jpg" u="24.jpg" t="Hitching back" %}
